so this is what the boa does best let's
see if I can show you a little bit more
about how this snake hunts so now you
can see quite a lot of the snakes bulk
is going to straight around my neck
around here is where my windpipe is
where air comes in and out of my lungs
and also where the arteries are that
carry blood to my brain
now as I breathe out the snake is very
subtly increasing the pressure around my
throat as you can see that's making it
more and more difficult for me to
breathe and every time I breathe out it
just tightens a little bit more until
eventually I can't get any air in or out
of my lungs and already at this stage if
I wasn't just to ease the pressure I
would be finding breathing very
difficult indeed this
is what constricting means if you see me
starting to go blue or purple in the
base then I might need a little bit of
help constricting basically means to
strangle to suffocate the life out of
prey and that's how this magnificent
animal manages to kill the mammals it's
feeding on that all cells go around the
back of my neck now it's just finding
places and ways of getting purchase to
use its really strong muscles in choking
me now you've got quite a short time and
I can show you this before I'm going to
have to release myself the amazing thing
that happens next is that the boa
constrictor will actually start to
swallow its prey whole and to do that it
can open this mouth incredibly wide
Oh
actually yeah yeah it's amazing how
strong it is